add Sol Unterhanded Contest Announcement (#96)
ethereum/solidity-blog: _posts/2020-09-21-solidity-underhanded-contest.md

---
layout: post
published: true
title: 'The Solidity Underhanded Contest is back!'
date: '2020-09-21'
author: Franziska Heintel
category: Announcements
---

We're excited to share that the [Solidity Underhanded Contest](https://underhanded.solidity.rocks/) is finally back!

Inspired by the [Underhanded C Contest](http://www.underhanded-c.org/) and the first [Underhanded Solidity Contest](https://u.solidity.cc/), organized in 2017 by Nick Johnson, we decided it is time for a much needed revival.

![Solidity Underhanded Contest](/img/2020/09/Underhanded_Solidity.gif)

The goal of this contest is to write innocent-looking Solidity code, which pretends to be clear and straightforward, but actually contains malicious behavior or backdoors.

By hosting such a contest we aim to:

+ Raise awareness about smart contract security.
+ Uncover language design flaws.
+ Battle-test recently introduced language features and restrictions.
+ Highlight anti-patterns in smart contact development.
+ Establish new best practices for secure smart contract development.

## The Theme 🚪🔑

**This year's theme is upgradability of contracts, or, more specifically, upgrade mechanisms.**

> Contract upgrades or migrations can pose a big threat to users, especially considering that in many cases it appears users are not even aware of what is happening, or, are made vaguely aware of it but cannot grasp the possible implications. The moment of the migration can be exploited to take over control. 
> 
> Since a smart contract in which a single account is authorized to arbitrarily change its implementation defeats the idea of decentralization, submissions need to contain a mechanism where code can be upgraded but users are (seemingly) still in control. 
> 
> This can be realized via an opt-out mechanism, a way to split the contract or whatever else you can come up with. The main requirement is that this mechanism has to be flawed such that there actually is a single account in control, even if it does not seem like it.
> 
> Note that **the flaw should be in the upgrade mechanism**, not in the main contract. Hence, the contract that is actually to be upgraded should be very small, e.g. an ERC20 contract or a simple registry. You do not need to come up with a reason to actually upgrade the contract. Of course a little story around your submission is a nice-to-have, but it's not mandatory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to fix bugs in Smart Contracts, it is often necessary to perform upgrades. The problem with upgrades is that there is no feasible automatic mechanism to control that the new code still does what the old code intended to do. Because of that, upgrade mechanism are often designed such that a single account which has the ability to change the code arbitrarily.

Since a smart contract in which a single account is authorized to arbitrarily change its implementation defeats the idea of decentralization, we would like to use this contest to find mechanism that are better suited, be it via an opt-out mechanism a way to split the contract or whatever else you can come up with.

At the same time, this mechanism has to have a flaw or backdoor that is not easy to discover so that in the end, there is still a single account in control, even if it does not seem like it.

Note that **the flaw should be in the upgrade mechanism**, not in the main contract. Hence, the contract that is actually to be upgraded should be very small, e.g. an ERC20 contract or a simple registry. You do not need to come up with a reason to actually upgrade the contract. Of course a little story around your submission is a nice-to-have, but it's not mandatory.
```

Reviewer: Changed the wording to explain a bit more what the problems with "simple" upgrade mechanisms are, and that we also want to gain some insight into how "good" upgrade mechanisms can be designed.

Author: included this suggestion.

## The Contest Details 🧑‍💻

Submissions are open from 1st of October until the 31st of October 2020. Anybody, with the exception of judges, can participate (for details about submissions and participation please see the [contest website](https://underhanded.solidity.rocks/)).

Judges will be presented with anonymised submissions. This year's submissions will be assessed by:

+ Alex Beregszaszi, Solidity Co-Lead at Ethereum Foundation
+ Austin Williams, Security Researcher at OpenZeppelin
+ Christian Reitwiessner, Solidity Co-Lead at Ethereum Foundation
+ Gonçalo Sá, Security Engineer at ConsenSys Diligence

> + Stefan Beyer, Lead Auditor at Solidified

Author: yes, you are right. will add.
